# Blog quirks

There are certain subtleties that you must know about the blog in this codebase.

## The `PostSchema` and `TBlogPost` types

There is a "weird" defined document type in [the _Contentlayer config file_](/contentlayer.config.ts), which is named `PostSchema`, based on
[`BLOG_POST_SCHEMA_CONFIG`, defined in the _contentlayerConfigTweakers.ts_ file](/interop/config/blog/contentLayerConfigTweakers.ts).  
It has an empty `filePathPattern`, and no `computedFields`.

If you look in the `.contentlayer/generated/index.d.ts` file, you should understand quickly what is the `PostSchema`:

```ts
// .contentlayer/generated/index.d.ts
export type PostSchema = {
  _id: string;
  _raw: Local.RawDocumentData;
  type: 'PostSchema';
  title: string;
  metadescription: string;
  description?: string | undefined;
  date: IsoDateTimeString;
  url: string;
  body: Markdown;
};

export type BlogPostExample = {
  _id: string;
  _raw: Local.RawDocumentData;
  type: 'BlogPostExample';
  title: string;
  metadescription: string;
  description?: string | undefined;
  date: IsoDateTimeString;
  body: Markdown;
  url: string;
};
```

The purpose of this document type is to craft the _`TBlogPost` type_.  
To create a "Base" post type that rules all the others.

_Contentlayer_ generates a _phantom type_, which is the `type` field.  
This field ensures that you cannot "Confuse" one type of blog post with another one.  
But if you respectfully configure the `PostSchema` and all its related posts, then you can `Omit` this `type` field, and gain all the advantages of
the [_`TBlogPost` type_.](/src/types/Blog.ts)

```ts
// types/Blog.ts
import { PostSchema } from 'contentlayer/generated';

type ContentLayerPhantomType = 'type';
export type TBlogPost = Omit<PostSchema, ContentLayerPhantomType>;
```

Therefore, it is important to maintain the `PostSchema` declaration if you add any field to your blog posts, to maintain the consistency of the
_`TBlogPost` type_ which offers the ability to apply generic processing to _blog posts_.

In order to make this process less error-prone, the configuration structure is quite rigorously typed.

See also:

- [_Edit blog posts fields_](./03.edit-blog-posts-fields.md)
- [_Add new blog category_](./02.add-new-blog-category.md)

---

Happy coding! :)
