# Configure the i18ns constant

Directly manipulating i18n paths and their namespaces is quite dangerous: it means that these hard-coded values will be scattered all over the code,
making it a nightmare to change them when necessary.

Admittedly, this need is rare, but it's best to handle these paths with care, and therefore to set up an intermediary to alias and handle them in a
standard, uniform way.

This is precisely what "i18ns" offers here.

## The `i18ns` constant

The `i18ns` constant is initialized in [the _i18n config file_.](/interop/config/i18n.ts)

It is built following 3 steps:

1. Initialization
2. Validation
3. Customization

### Initialization

First, we declare a constant that must exhaustively describe all the namespaces at the root of our internationalization dictionary.  
The left part is the alias, and the right part is the namespace from the dictionary.

```ts
// config/i18n.ts
const _i18nsBase = {
  blogCategories: 'blog-categories',
  pagesTitles: 'pages-titles',
  dashboard: 'dashboard',
  navbar: 'navbar',
  infos: '_infos',
  vocab: 'vocab',
  auth: 'auth'
} as const satisfies I18nsBase;
```

Forgetting a namespace as follows would result in an error at validation.

For example:

```ts
// config/i18n.ts
const _i18nsBase = {
  blogCategories: 'blog-categories',
  pagesTitles: 'pages-titles',
  dashboard: 'dashboard',
  navbar: 'navbar',
  // infos: '_infos', // * ... Oops!
  vocab: 'vocab',
  auth: 'auth'
} as const satisfies I18nsBase;
```

would cause the following error:

> Property '\_infos' is missing in ...

### Validation

To validate our base, we will simply try to construct a new constant by passing it to the validator.

```ts
// config/i18n.ts
const i18nsBase: MakeI18nsBase<typeof _i18nsBase> = _i18nsBase;
```

This validator will reverse the left and right parts and check that we're building an exhaustive alias dictionary.  
If this is not the case, the construction of this new constant will fail, telling us exactly which fields are missing.

### Customization

Now that we have a validated `i18nsBase`, it is time to build the `i18ns` constant.

To do this, we first inject our i18nsBase into it:

```ts
// config/i18n.ts
export const i18ns = {
  ...i18nsBase
} as const satisfies typeof i18nsBase & Record<PropertyKey, I18nVocabScope>;
```

And then, we can go deeper and also alias deep paths:

```ts
// config/i18n.ts
export const i18ns = {
  ...i18nsBase,
  dashboardPagesTitles: 'dashboard.pages-titles' // * ... Deep path alias
} as const satisfies typeof i18nsBase & Record<PropertyKey, I18nVocabScope>;
```

---

Happy coding! :)
