# Navbar quirks

There are certain subtleties that you must know about the navbar in this codebase.

## Dropdowns are not rendered on mobile

Since dropdowns in the _Mobile_ version of a navbar are undesirable, they are disabled on mobile, reverting to regular buttons.  
In this scenario, their routes will be the ones defined in [SITEWIDE_NAVBAR_ROUTES](/src/config/SitewideNavbar/routesImpl.ts).  
It is up to you to adjust the pages served by those routes.

## Internal mechanics: `getComputedNavData` and `RoutesKeysUnion`

Since a navbar may also serve as a '_Mega menu_' in its _Desktop_ version, this one implements its own `DropdownsConfig`
([`NavbarDropdownsConfig`](/src/types/WebsiteUtils.ts)), depending on the [`getComputedNavData` function](/src/lib/misc/getComputedNavData.ts) which
also depends on a type representing the union of all the routes keys defined in this App code: [`RoutesKeysUnion`.](/src/types/RoutesKeysUnion.ts)

Please, maintain the [`RoutesKeysUnion`](/src/types/RoutesKeysUnion.ts) type when you define new routes, in order to maintain the genericity of
[`getComputedNavData`.](/src/lib/misc/getComputedNavData.ts)

## Hard-coded height

If you pay some attention to [the _SitewideNavbar component file_](/src/components/navbar/SitewideNavbar.tsx), you'll see that the height of the
navbar is hard-coded in a plain string for the _Desktop_ version.

```tsx
<Navbar
  ...
  className="... lg:h-[82px]"
>
```

This is because we need to keep safe the _dynamic top property_ of the _Desktop Dashboard Sidebar_, and must keep the navbar design predictable.

Internationalization can cause design problems by making certain elements appear on two lines rather than one, in which case the problem should be
corrected rather than allowing the navbar to expand indefinitely.

In addition, it could lead to unexpected problems when loading localization files, such as resolutions where the accumulation of raw vocabulary keys
during the loading phase ends up distorting the navbar, and then causes the _Desktop Dashboard Sidebar's_ top property to be miscalculated.

The value is hard-coded in a string, and not imported from any module to guarantee no build/render error.

To update it by hand, you should just remove the `lg:h-[_px]` class, then use the element inspector of your browser to get the height of the navbar
when it is displayed properly, then hard-code again a `lg:h-[_px]` class with the good arbitrary value.
